---
layout: post
speaker: "Wenxin Jiang"
title: "An Empirical Study of Pre-Trained Model Reuse in the Hugging Face Deep Learning Model Registry"
time: 12p EST
location: "LAWSON 3102"
category: seminar
invited: false
link_abstract: true
bio: "Wenxin Jiang is a third-year PhD student majoring in ECE at Purdue University. Prof. James Davis supervises him. His research interest is Software Engineering for Machine Learning, especially the reusability, reproducibility, and trustworthiness of deep learning pre-trained models (PTMs)."
---
Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) are being adopted as components in software systems. Creating and specializing DNNs from scratch has grown increasingly difficult as state-of-the-art architectures grow more complex. Following the path of traditional software engineering, machine learning engineers have begun to reuse large-scale pre-trained models (PTMs) and fine-tune these models for downstream tasks. Prior works have studied reuse practices for traditional software packages to guide software engineers towards better package maintenance and dependency management. We lack a similar foundation of knowledge to guide behaviors in pre-trained model ecosystems. In this work, we present the first empirical investigation of PTM reuse. We interviewed 12 practitioners from the most popular PTM ecosystem, Hugging Face, to learn the practices and challenges of PTM reuse. From this data, we model the decision-making process for PTM reuse. Based on the identified practices, we describe useful attributes for model reuse, including provenance, reproducibility, and portability. Three challenges for PTM reuse are missing attributes, discrepancies between claimed and actual performance, and model risks. We substantiate these identified challenges with systematic measurements in the Hugging Face ecosystem. Our work informs future directions on optimizing deep learning ecosystems by automated measuring useful attributes and potential attacks and envision future research on infrastructure and standardization for model registries.
