---
layout: post
speaker: "Nan Jiang"
title: "KNOD: Domain Knowledge Distilled Tree Decoder for Automated Program Repair
Impact of Code Language Models on Automated Program Repair"
time: 12p EST
location: "WANG 1004"
category: seminar
invited: false
link_abstract: true
bio: "My name is Nan Jiang, and I am a forth-year Ph.D. student majoring in Computer Science at Purdue University. Currently, I am working with Prof. Lin Tan about leveraging Large Language Models for automated program repair and potentially other software engineering tasks."
---
Automated Program Repair (APR) improves software reliability by generating patches for a buggy program automatically. Recent APR techniques leverage deep learning (DL) to build models to learn to generate patches from existing patches and code corpora. While promising, DL-based APR techniques suffer from the abundant syntactically or semantically incorrect patches in the patch space. These patches often disobey the syntactic and semantic domain knowledge of source code and thus cannot be the correct patches to fix a bug.

We propose a DL-based APR approach KNOD, which incorporates domain knowledge to guide patch generation in a direct and comprehensive way. KNOD has two major novelties, including (1) a novel three-stage tree decoder, which directly generates Abstract Syntax Trees of patched code according to the inherent tree structure, and (2) a novel domain-rule distillation, which leverages syntactic and semantic rules and teacher-student distributions to explicitly inject the domain knowledge into the decoding procedure during both the training and inference phases.

We evaluate KNOD on three widely-used benchmarks. KNOD fixes 72 bugs on the Defects4J v1.2, 25 bugs on the QuixBugs, and 50 bugs on the additional Defects4J v2.0 benchmarks, outperforming all existing APR tools.
